### Medical and Laboratory Test Results
#### Medical Test Results
Medical test results represent the outcomes of procedures performed to determine values of properties of the human body or of subjects related to the body (e.g., environment, substances, animals, devices etc.).

This broad category includes laboratory test results typically based on in vitro diagnostic devices that follow In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices Regulation (IVDR) (EU) 2017/746 and results based on measurements and diagnostic functions by medical devices according to the Medical Device Regulation (MDR) 2017/745. Additionally, the medical test results may include results from direct observation or emerging technologies for minimally invasive tests, such as biosensor monitoring or other non-invasive tests for direct measurement of the properties of saliva, sweat, or tears, as well as techniques for transcutaneous measurement of properties, regardless of whether the measurement is performed in a healthcare provider setting, such as in dedicated outpatient clinics, or at the point of care, or in patient’s home environment.

Medical test results include, but are not limited to:
- laboratory tests typically based on in vitro diagnostic devices regulated under the IVDR (EU) 2017/746;
- results from measurements performed by medical devices regulated under the MDR (EU) 2017/745, such as physiological or functional in vivo measurements;
- measurement results obtained by the imaging observation methods
- examination results from observation of the patient, body parts of the patient and/or their functions
- results generated by emerging technologies, including minimally invasive or non-invasive techniques such as biosensors and direct measurements from saliva, sweat, or tears, as well as transcutaneous measurement techniques.

#### Laboratory Test Results
Laboratory test results are a subset of medical test results and represent electronic health data produced by studies performed primarily using in vitro diagnostic methods under controlled conditions.

Laboratory test results constitute a major subset of medical test results and represent the primary focus of the specifications defined in this IG. Laboratory test results in electronic form represent results from studies performed through in vitro diagnostics such as clinical biochemistry, haematology, transfusion medicine, microbiology, immunology and related disciplines. Laboratory test results are often provided together with additional information supporting the interpretation of the results.

Laboratory test results are typically produced using in vitro diagnostic devices compliant with IVDR (EU) 2017/746. The results may originate from dedicated laboratories, point of care testing performed in healthcare settings such as doctor’s office or hospital wards, or from supervised testing performed in a non-clinical environment, including patient homes.

Laboratory test results are typically characterized by:
- controlled environmental conditions (e.g. temperature, humidity, lighting);
- standardized and validated standard operating procedures (SOPs);
- use of calibrated and maintained instruments;
- application of internal quality control (IQC) and participation in external quality assessment (EQA) / proficiency testing schemes;
- performance by trained and qualified personnel operating within defined professional roles and responsibilities.

Laboratory results are typically generated in:
- accredited clinical laboratories,
- hospital laboratory departments,
- or certified POCT environments operating under laboratory governance frameworks.

These conditions provide a high level of analytical reliability and support the use of laboratory test results for diagnostic decision-making, clinical monitoring, and secondary use such as research and population health analysis.

#### Guidance for Use
It is not easy to draw a clear line between general medical test results and laboratory test results as they are rather similar, with only minor differences in content, as shown in the logical models. Nevertheless, FHIR IG developers and implementers of the EHR systems would have to decide which type of observation to use.  We propose to take into consideration the following rules:
- Use Laboratory test results when results originate from in vitro diagnostic procedures performed under laboratory governance and quality assurance frameworks.
- Use Medical test results as the broader category for results obtained across different environments and technologies.
- When representing medical including laboratory test results, ensure that the measurement context is available to support appropriate clinical interpretation.

#### Implementation note: Laboratory panels
Laboratory panels (or batteries) are predefined groups of tests that can be ordered from a laboratory using a single code from a chosen coding system. Upon receiving such an order, the laboratory expands it into its individual component tests and reports results for each test separately.

If it is necessary to preserve the relationship between the panel and its component tests, the panel should be represented as a grouping Observation. In this approach, the panel code is used as the code of the grouping Observation, and each component test is represented as a separate Observation. These individual Observations are then linked to the grouping Observation via the `hasMember` reference.

#### Implementation note: Reflex tests
Reflex tests are additional laboratory tests performed automatically based on predefined criteria, such as the result of an initial test. They are not usually ordered directly as part of the original request, but are triggered by the laboratory workflow when specific conditions are met.

When it is necessary to preserve the relationship between the initial test and the reflex test, this relationship should be represented using the triggeredBy element. The original test result is represented as one Observation, and each reflex test result is represented as a separate Observation. The reflex test Observation should reference the Observation that triggered it using triggeredBy.observation, and the appropriate trigger type should be recorded in triggeredBy.type.

This allows the result report to clearly indicate that the reflex test was performed as a consequence of another observation, while keeping each test result as a distinct Observation.

<div>
    <blockquote class="stu-note">
        <p>This profile offers two options to indicate the Certified Reference Material used for the calibration (in general when the UCUM International Units are used for the results [IU]).</p>
        <p>
            <ul>
                <li>The first to be used when the Certified Reference Material is represented by a coded concept</li>
                <li>The second when the Certified Reference Material is identified with an Identifier.</li>
            </ul>
        </p>
        <p>Adopters are invited to give their feedback about
            <ol>
                <li>The most proper way to refer the Certified Reference Material, that is by using an Identifier or a CodeableConcept</li>
                <li>If a CodeableReference should be used</li>
                <li>If this information should be an extension of the Observation resource, or of other elements (e.g. DeviceMetric.calibration)</li>
            </ol>
        </p>
    </blockquote>
</div>

